---
layout: default
title: Week 3 - Firing my laser
image: './site-assets/week-3.jpg'
pong: './pongs/week-3'
author: mike
---


Wow! Una did an amazing job. It as not what I was expecting, but at the same time, I was expecting something I wasn't expecting, and despite this, Una didn't fail to suprise me. We all know there is really only one response to Una's giant, glowing, alien, crystal, thing. We need to fire a massive lazer out the end of it and burn the sky!

I wanted to include some kind of button so that people could fire the lazer. This was a great opportunity to explore how interaction works in WebVR. But first I needed to add the components.

I agree with Una that Blender has somewhat of a steep learning curve, so I am glad the model for the lazer beam is a simple cylinder, one of A-Frame's built-in primitives. 

Orienting and positioning the laser was not easy! I was able to find the correct rotation by trial and error but the anchor point for the lazer remains in the center of the cylinder. This means that currently the center of the cylinder is where I want the start to be. How do I find where I need to position the center of the cylinder? Maths! 
 
As I mentioned before A-Frame is a wrapper for Three.js and Three.js has a whole bunch of vector maths functions to make positioning things like this easy. This will be handy for moving anything in the scene programatically, but I just want find and set the correct initial position.

All I need to do is find a 3d point along a line provided by the angle that is 50% the height of the cylinder.

If you're having trouble imagining this, hold a pencil in its center, between two fingers. Look where the tip is. We want to move the center of the pencil to where its tip currently is. If we do this keeping the current angle the end of the pencil will be where your fingers are, right?

